import Layout from '../../components/Layout';
export default Layout;

# Platform

Floating UI works on any platform that can run JavaScript, as
long as it has adequate measurement APIs for elements.

Floating UI works largely with a `Rect{:.class}`, which is an
object of numbers in the form `{width, height, x, y}`. This data
can come from anywhere, and the library will perform the right
computations. `x` and `y` represent the coordinates of the
element relative to another one.

```js
import {computePosition} from '@floating-ui/core';

computePosition(referenceElement, floatingElement, {
  platform: {
    // ...
  },
});
```

## Methods

A `platform{:.objectKey}` is a plain object consisting of 7
methods. These methods allow the platform to interface with
Floating UI's logic.

Each of these methods can be either async or sync. This enables
support of platforms whose measurement APIs are async, like React
Native.

### getElementRects

Takes in the elements and the positioning `strategy{:.objectKey}`
and returns the element `Rect{:.class}` objects.

```js
function getElementRects({reference, floating, strategy}) {
  return {
    reference: {width: 0, height: 0, x: 0, y: 0},
    floating: {width: 0, height: 0, x: 0, y: 0},
  };
}
```

#### reference

The `x{:.objectKey}` and `y{:.objectKey}` values of a reference
`Rect{:.class}` should be its coordinates relative to the
floating element's `offsetParent` element, not the viewport.

#### floating

Both `x{:.objectKey}` and `y{:.objectKey}` are not relevant
initially, so you can set these both of these to `0{:js}`.

### convertOffsetParentRelativeRectToViewportRelativeRect

This function will take a `Rect{:.class}` that is relative to a
given `offsetParent{:.param}` element and convert its
`x{:.objectKey}` and `y{:.objectKey}` values such that it is
instead relative to the viewport.

```js
function convertOffsetParentRelativeRectToViewportRelativeRect({
  rect,
  offsetParent,
  strategy,
}) {
  return rect;
}
```

### getOffsetParent

Returns the `offsetParent` of a given element. The following four
properties are what is accessed on an `offsetParent`.

```js
function getOffsetParent({element}) {
  return {
    clientWidth: 0,
    clientHeight: 0,
    clientLeft: 0,
    clientTop: 0,
  };
}
```

### isElement

Determines if the current value is an element.

```js
function isElement(value) {
  return true;
}
```

### getDocumentElement

Returns the document element.

```js
function getDocumentElement({element}) {
  return {};
}
```

### getDimensions

Return the dimensions of an element.

```js
function getDimensions({element}) {
  return {width: 0, height: 0};
}
```

### getClippingClientRect

Return the `clientRect` (**relative to the viewport**) whose
outside bounds will clip the given element. For instance, the
viewport.

```js
function getClippingClientRect({
  element,
  boundary,
  rootBoundary,
}) {
  return {
    width: 0,
    height: 0,
    top: 0,
    right: 0,
    bottom: 0,
    left: 0,
    x: 0,
    y: 0,
  };
}
```

## Usage

All these methods are passed to `platform{:.objectKey}`:

```js
import {computePosition} from '@floating-ui/core';

computePosition(referenceEl, floatingEl, {
  platform: {
    getElementRects,
    convertOffsetParentRelativeRectToViewportRelativeRect,
    getOffsetParent,
    isElement,
    getDocumentElement,
    getDimensions,
    getClippingClientRect,
  },
});
```
